Caption info: 

art.jpg: An art installation by Glenn Rice is featured in The Blue Note lobby Thursday Feb. 28, 2013. There are installations all over downtown Columbia for the True False Film Fest. Photo: BREANNE BRADLEY

cupcakes_jubilee.jpg: Miniature cupcakes emblazoned with the True/False Film Fest logo, made by students in the Culinary Arts Program at the Columbia Area Career Center, sit on a tray before the Jubilee on Thursday night at the Missouri Theatre. Photo: GREG KENDALL-BALL

haas_jubilee.jpg: Sarah Haas, a print traffic manager with the True/False Film Fest and the person responsible for making sure films arrive at the right venues, works on the phone in the lobby of the Missouri Theatre during the True/False Film Fest on Thursday night. Photo: Greg Kendall-Ball

marchmarch_1.jpg: Q queen Carolyn Magnusson stands outside the Boone County Courthouse before the start of the True/False March March Friday afternoon, March 1, 2013. Photo: SARAH NG

marchmarch_2.jpg: Josh Oxenhandler and Gary Merriman's robot costumes sit  in the snow while they waited for the True/False March March to begin on Friday, March 1, 2013 on Walnut Street. Photo: PETER MAREK

paul_david.jpg: True/False is the brainchild of founders David Wilson, left, and Paul Sturtz. Photo: HARRY KATZ

q_jubilee.jpg: More than 100 people wait in the "Q" line outside the Missouri Theatre on opening night of the True/False Film Fest on Thursday night, Feb. 28, 2013. Festival attendees unable to get passes in advance for a particular movie can wait in the "Q" for the chance to buy a ticket if seats are available. Photo: Greg Kendall-Ball

setup.jpg: True/False volunteer Courtney Sommesi sells merchandise to customers Thursdsay morning Feb. 28, 2013. Photo: BEN WALTON 
village.jpg: Niaqornat, Greenland, is home to 59 people in Sarah Gavron's documentary, The Village at the End of the World. Photo: Met Film Production

wrapup.jpg: True/False Film Fest goers wait at a Q after the Jubilee on opening night Thursday at the Missouri Theatre. Photo: GREG KENDALL-BALL

