True/False directorial debuts
True/False loves films right off the cutting room floor

BY ERIN JONES
FEBRUARY 28, 2013 | 12:00 A.M. CST
Eric Daniel Metzgar was pacing the hallways of Missouri Theatre over and over, too anxious to sit still. Sitting in the theater, he couldn’t keep his hands from trembling, so finally he gave up and left.
True/False is usually documentary heaven for film buffs, but not for Metzgar, not that day. The experience was overwhelming. He instead directed his nervous strides to the bathroom.
As he stood in a stall, the booming noise of the film reverberating through the bathroom, he heard a voice narrate the film — his voice. As Metzgar peed to the soundtrack of himself floating through the restroom, he thought, “Is this amazing, or is this hell?”
Metzgar was screening his documentary The Chances of the World Changing for the first time, a work in progress, at True/False in 2006. Every year there is a collection of new or underrated films that adds to the flavor of the festival. Co-conspirators David Wilson and Paul Sturtz don’t track how many new documentaries they have shown over the years. The purpose of True/False is to focus on great films, not new ones.
But if they can find a new, fantastic movie that was overlooked or underestimated by other festivals to screen at True/False, then that’s perfection.
From conception to the difficult labor of filming, the directors who show their films at True/False watch their projects bloom on the screen. Unfortunately, there’s no easy way to dull first-screening jitters.
Nick Bentgen recalls sitting in a clamorous Starbucks, barely being able to hear Wilson on the other end of the phone. What he could decipher caused his mouth to stretch into a wide smile. This was it. His film Northern Light, co-directed by Lisa Kjerulff, was in. The documentary was the bait, and True/False 2013 was the first fish to finally take a bite. But acceptance to the festival wasn’t the end of improving the film. Bentgen apologizes profusely each time he halts answering a question to cough. He is under the weather from working day and night to finish the film’s music. Despite the frantic polishing, he’s thrilled to screen his work for the first time, though he might gnaw his hand off in the theater.
Newbie films joining Northern Light this year include These Birds Walk, The Village at the End of the World and I Am Breathing.
For Peter Nicks, director of The Waiting Room, True/False 2012 was the platform from which he could move an audience with voices that had once been silent. After the grueling filming process, getting into other festivals became a Sisyphus struggle of rolling film reel up to a submissions director and having it tumble back down 22 times. He was drained.
Then Nicks arrived at True/False, and he was a man renewed. The festival’s energy and passion slicked his parched director’s mojo with creative juices. During his first screening, he was charged and fascinated to see peoples’ reactions. At a mild comical moment in the emotional film, the audience roared. Nicks had the last laugh. The Waiting Room was shortlisted for an Oscar nomination.
A filmmaker’s dream is spawning a movie so powerful that a festival offers to screen the masterpiece and fly the director to a film haven of documentary-lovers and fellow artists. For director Owen Lowery, the fantasy was between true and false. His film, An Alternative to Slitting Your Wrist, screened for the first time (unofficially) in 2008. True/False was incredible but set him up for disappointment. Future festivals couldn’t match the kindness, sense of community and enthusiasm for an unknown film.
Last year, Omar Mullick tensely stood at the side of the theater while his co director Bassam Tariq sat in his seat, equally apprehensive. They were screening a work-in-progress of their film These Birds Walk.
The film was a mess. The scenes were imperfect, and the transitions were disorienting. One shot showed a wedding, and the next scene cut to the death of a man who resembled the groom. But the rough screening was motivation to film additional scenes. True/False made the path clear.
The return to True/False this year is more than another stop on the festival circuit. For Mullick and Tariq, it’s a homecoming. Mullick says his heart warmed at receiving the acceptance email that proclaimed support for their film. They are grateful and humbled. But unlike last year, the directors are content with the film they’ve made. They are ready for this bird to fly.