What you need to know about True/False 2013
What is the True/False Film Festival?
	•	It is a documentary film festival held in Columbia from Thursday to Sunday. There are also parties, panel discussions, a parade, a 5k run and other activities on top of movie screenings. View the schedule of the True/False website here. Click here for a map of venues for events and concerts.
What films are showing?
	•	There are 42 films being screened at this year's festival. Check the list on True/False's website with descriptions and links to trailers.
How do I attend the screenings?
	•	Although all the passes to attend screenings have been sold out, there is still a way to attend. An hour before the film starts, go to the venue and look for the venue Queen – the most flamboyant person in the area. The Queen will hand over a Q number and the house manager will release all available seats five minutes prior to the start of the film. These tickets cost $10 for nonpassholders ($6 for students for films at the Missouri Theatre, The Blue Note and Jesse Hall); passholders get Q tickets for free.
Where are films being screened?
True/False shows films in eight venues. All are within walking distance of each other in downtown Columbia. Click here for an interactive map of the film venues.
	.	The Blue Note, 17 N. Ninth St.
	.	Forrest Theater at The Tiger Hotel, 23 S. Eighth St.
	.	The Globe Theater (First Presbyterian Church), 16 Hitt St.
	.	Jesse Auditorium, 801 Conley Ave.
	.	The Missouri Theatre, 203 S. Ninth St.
	.	The Odd Fellows Lodge, 920 E. Walnut St.
	.	The Picturehouse (Missouri United Methodist Church), 204 S. Ninth St.
	.	Ragtag Cinema (big and little), 10 Hitt St
How do I get around the festival?
All garages are open 24 hours, seven days a week. The District has 5,900 public and private parking spaces, including 1,413 on-street metered spaces.
Rates vary based on the location of the space. On-street parking costs between 60 and 75 cents per hour. To park in a garage costs 50 cents per hour.
On-street metered parking is enforced between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday through Saturday. There is no charge on Sunday.
City garages are located at Eighth and Walnut streets; Eighth and Cherry streets; Sixth and Cherry streets; Tenth and Cherry streets; and Fifth and Walnut streets.
Taxi service will be available in the The District for the weekend. City buses will run between 6:20 a.m. and 9:15 p.m. Thursday and Friday and between 10 a.m. and 7:05 p.m. on Saturday.
The city will alter its FastCAT route to provide service to all of the venues at no charge.
