Co-conspirators celebrate 10 years of True/False
The most humble culture heroes you'll ever meet

True/False is the proverbial brainchild of founders David Wilson and Paul Sturtz.
BY BETH STEFFENS
FEBRUARY 28, 2013 | 12:00 A.M. CST
Paul Sturtz and David Wilson are no strangers to staggering exhaustion. With traveling, planning events, incessant emailing and doc watching, they inevitably get their butts kicked every year in the few months leading up to True/False. What started out as a fun event with an uncertain future has become “One of the Most Well-Respected Doc Fests” according to IndieWire, and this is partly thanks to their working relationship.
“There’s sort of a joke that they’re like a cranky married couple,” says Paul’s wife, Polina Malikin about David and Paul. But Polina is OK with sharing her partner, and Paul acknowledges this priceless companionship, too. “It’s an unusual collaboration,” says Paul. “I’m sure that every year we have three or four days where we’re like, ‘Argh,’ but that’s a pretty good percentage for 15 years.”

Years of change
Life is anything but static for Paul and David, but that’s what they prefer. They’ve been pretty busy the past 10 years. Paul is also a booking agent for three theaters in the U.S., and after taking a small hiatus from traveling so he could raise two children and serve on Columbia’s City Council, he got more involved with visiting other doc fests this year. In 2012, he spent a month doing a European doc tour. He and David try to visit nearly 10 festivals a year, including Mexico’s Morelia, Thessaloniki in Greece and others in Amsterdam, Toronto and more. All together, they each watch a few hundred documentaries a year.
David, with fellow director AJ Schnack, will be showing their feature-length documentary, We Always Lie to Strangers, at the South by Southwest film festival March 8-17. His mom and dad, Vicky and Willy Wilson, will be attending the Austin, Texas fest with him. In addition, David and Paul would like to broaden Hi-Def Academy, which started last year for local high school students who are interested in film, to a national scale. They also want to start a mentoring program for filmmakers who are finishing up projects. New ideas are abundant with the pair. “Most of them (ideas) I think will not come to fruition,” Vicky says. “Then they do, and they’re even better than I could have anticipated, so I’ve learned to trust his instincts.”

Post-fest fatigue
The film festival season is never easy for Paul and David. “There’s such a certain energy to it that you might at the end of the day be like: ‘I hate this. Why can’t I just be like a normal person and just relax and just have a normal weekend?’” Paul says. The hectic schedules took a toll on David this year when he got the flu right around the time of the Sundance Film Festival in January. Once True/False is over in March, adjusting to normal life isn’t exactly seamless.
“I think that it took us awhile to realize the post-fest depression, and even once I was able to acknowledge it, I thought acknowledging it would make it not happen,” David says. “And then I realized no, it just happens.” The fest doesn’t end once the movies stop playing Sunday night, though. Monday morning always consists of cleaning up venues and getting a few hungover directors on the road and to the airport.
Regardless of their hobbled efforts come Monday, things have gotten easier over the years thanks to a growing staff. When they started in 2004, David and Paul took sleeping shifts while working 18 to 20 hours a day and did almost everything for the fest. Their schedules aren’t quite that crazy anymore, but there is still unfortunate time away from loved ones. “I don’t have an expectation of seeing him much starting after Labor Day,” says Vicky, who lives right down the road from David. “So I’m always very touched and pleased when he makes time to stop by on his way home from the office or going out to work,which he does.”
Paul says: “The weird thing is that even though part of us wants to slow down with True/False, it’s such a great world in which we operate that you’re sort of inspired to ramp it up and do more.”
And as David admits, “It beats counting pipe fittings,” which was his job before the collaboration began.

10 in, 10 more to go
David and Paul are committed to keeping the festival’s values intact, and filmmakers have noticed. When traveling to festivals around the world, it isn’t unusual for directors to tell Paul and David that coming to True/False was their favorite experience during the release of their film. Although hearing these sentiments is no longer surprising, the pair is still flattered.
Many filmmakers want to come back to True/False even when their films aren’t being featured. How to Survive a Plague’s director, David France, who was nominated for an Oscar this year, called to say he wanted to come back and work at the festival. Alison Klayman, director of the 2012 documentary Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry, also asked to come back and help. Paul and David recently heard from Steve James, director of The Interrupters, who wanted to know where he and his wife could buy passes for the event. No freebies, no discounts, they just wanted to come back to Columbia. “It was really inspiring to think we created something that he wanted to come back to on his own with his wife just to experience again,” David says. “That’s really nice motivation.”
Regardless of the great relationships they’ve made in their first nine years as co-conspirators, David and Paul know the fest always has to trace back to its roots, which is showing the year’s best docs. “The tricky thing for us as we get established as a festival is to not be too calcified, to still innovate and to not just invite back our old friends that have been here before,” Paul says. Knowing the fest should always innovate helps to humble the two because they know True/False can always be better. And even though the two take pride in things they’ve accomplished, they never take all the credit and don’t like the “badassery” that’s been associated with their names.
“I’m proud of it, and I have worked as hard as anybody to make it happen, but I don’t think I’m as comfortable with this rock star identity,” David says. “And that’s not something we strive for or welcome.”
In addition to remaining humble, where do the co-conspirators and their loved ones see the fest in 10 years? “I never know what David is going to do,” Vicky says with a laugh. But because T and F were the first two letters one of Paul and Polina’s children learned, it seems True/False will always be part of their lives.