The True Life Fund gives back to doc causes
The True Life Fund rewards subjects of documentaries for their selfless social impact

BY JADE EARLE
FEBRUARY 28, 2013 
In the midst of promoting the provocative anti-bullying film across the country, some of the families featured in the documentary sacrificed their daily routines in order to join the publicity circuit. But Tracy Lane did not know being away from their jobs would be both a sacrifice and liability.
As the True Life Fund coordinator, she says the news made her think about the fund’s importance in the lives of film subjects and filmmakers. “It just really reinforced what a great thing we had done for these people,” Lane says. “That we had been able to provide them some funding, not even knowing that that was something that was going to happen to them later on down the road.”
The True Life Fund, which started in 2007, is considered more than just charity. According to the donation letter, the fund rewards subjects of documentaries for their selfless social impact with community donations and corporate sponsorship. But for some previous recipients, it reflects Columbia’s unforgettable attitude and gracious spirit.
Whether the subjects of the film are leaders in their own communities or international truth seekers, the True Life Fund seeks recipients who illustrate positive change.
The Crossing church sponsors the fund every year, and the Bertha Foundation, a second-year sponsor from the U.K., has decided to again match $15,000 if True/False can raise that amount this year, as it did for Bully.
The fund’s staff continues to raise more money annually and does not hesitate to expand its reach globally. In 2007 it raised $8,500 to purchase school supplies for the South African children’s singing choir in We Are Together and has since raised money to assist young girls who are recovering from sexual exploitation trauma and help underground journalists in Burma and Cambodia.
Sebastian Junger is being recognized by the True Life Fund this year for Which Way is the Front Line From Here? The Life & Time of Tim Hetherington. The money raised will go to Reporters Instructed in Saving Colleagues and the Milton Margai School for the Blind, two organizations related to the documentary.
The True Life recipients come from a wide range of subjects. “It was just (David and Paul) being moved by a particular film and saying: ‘That’s it. That’s the one we’re going to focus our efforts,’” Lane says. “These people really have done something significant to make change, and we want to help them in whatever way that we need to.”
Aside from money, the staff provides experiences that some filmmakers and subjects say are exclusive to Columbia.
Rob Lemkin visited Hickman High School in 2011. As the producer of 2010’s Fund film, Enemies of the People, he says the students’ response to the film was one of the strongest.
“When you’re dealing with high school students, you’re dealing with people who are still actually opening their mind to the way the world is,” he says. “(They) seemed to connect it to their sense of what they understood about the Vietnam War and what they understood about their parents’ generation.”
Lise-Lense Møller, the producer of Burma VJ, the 2009 fund film, says the generosity of the award is significant, considering the amount of work that goes into documentaries.
“You’ve already put so many hours in your work when you manage to finish the film,” she says. “For someone else to pat you on the back and spread the word, it means so much.”
Tina Long from 2011’s fund film Bully and her husband, David, bonded with True Life Fund liaison Harriet Yelon. The bond grew into a friendship, and the two stay in touch.
“It’s so funny that Harriet called me and left a message because I was just talking about the festival and how much we enjoyed it,” she says. “It was a great event. We were so honored to be a part of it.”
Last year marked the three-year anniversary of Tyler Long’s suicide following constant bullying at school. Tina Long says Yelon helped her cope with the emotional time.
“Being around Harriet and being involved with some of the people at that festival made it all seem like it was going to be OK,” she says. “The change was coming.”
True/False fans are beginning to understand that the fund is not for the producers and directors or the True/False staff. It’s for the individuals willing to share their stories in Columbia and, as Lane hopes, return home with a little slice of the Midwest with them. Long’s husband, David, though, might want an entire pie. “‘You think we need to move here?’” she says. “He was ready to pack up our house and move to Missouri.”